# Reflection
## Week 1
When answering the question regarding what I have found intriguing, compelling and effective about the history sites and projects I have explored, I thought it would be logical to provide an example from each week of the course thus far. Starting with week one, I would like to discuss how exploring Github made a positive impact on my own work in the course. Prior to week one I knew little about digital history, let alone what Github was and how it functioned. However, during this week, I really enjoyed exploring Github and observing how a rendered piece of text created on a text editor emerges on a code sharing website. As I had no experience with this website, I made many mistakes when trying to upload my week 1 directory. Specifically, when I included pictures in my work, they were failing to show up in the text file on Github. I eventually corrected my mistake after I realized that I was putting round brackets around the photo name when I should have been using square brackets. Fixing this mistake has been essential to the work I have done since week one as I have made significant use of the ability to share photos by including screenshots of my mistakes and triumphs. Overall, just being able to become comfortable with Github during week one has made it faster for me to upload by weekly logs, reflections and other materials.
## Week 2
Week two was when I realized how effective digitized data is in the field of history. Working with Excel to learn how to input a csv file, generate the table from the data and then insert a graph was interesting and educational because I had never worked with a csv file before, and so I did not entirely understand what was going to happen when I uploaded the file into Excel. However, this project taught me how to control the data from a csv file in order to input the numbers into a graph. Specifically, for this project, I was able to limit the data to find out how many girls aged 1-4 were present on the Ontario side of Ottawa-Gatineau. To confine the data even more, I created a graph to observe the amount of girls per age group. I made a connection between the effectiveness of this project to a reading assigned during this week of the course. The reading, "Confabulation in the humanities" by Matthew Lincoln looks at a question which asks whether using quantitative data to approach historical questions teaches us anything new. <sup>1</sup> After my experience with Excel, although I was not focused on answering a major historical question, I believe that quantitate data can be extremely effective at helping to answer historical questions. I hold this opinion mainly because quantitative data can show historians patterns, or a lack thereof, in historical data and it provides researchers with the ability to distinguish between growths and declines in sets of data. On that note, I feel that it is important to note here that prior to taking this course, I did not think much about how effective quantitative data could be when looking at history. However, using programs like Excel and learning through digital history has proved to me that history is more than just the accounts of people and groups, it is also trends and patterns that tell their own stories.
## Week 3
Although I enjoyed using different programs and learning more about digital history in week one and week two, I consider week three to be my favourite week so far in the course due to the freedom I had with creating my own stories and using creative programs. My favourite, and what I believe to be the most intriguing project completed thus far was the story I created using the StoryMap application. As briefly mentioned in my log.md, I used the StoryMaps platform to tell a story about Americans who came to Canada in an effort to avoid the Vietnam war draft being imposed in the States. These Americans, most of which were classified as 'draft dodgers', 'draft resisters' or 'war resisters', shaped the Canadian cities they moved to and created a youth culture occupied by individuals who shared similar political beliefs, values and experiences. Throughout last semester, my HIST 2809 course focused on such draft dodgers, their experiences and the significance of their migration to Canada. Therefore, I thought it would be a good topic to focus on in the StoryMap tutorial. Working through this tutorial was fun and I would consider it to be the most compelling project I have completed thus far simply because I had the freedom to write about a story of my choosing. Through this tutorial, I learned that digital history does not comprise solely of codes and text editor's, this field also provides historians with the resources to create stories that are easily accessible and engaging. When choosing the details of my StoryMap, I actually went to a friend for advice. Initially, I had chosen the watercolour option for the map, but my friend suggested going with one of the black and white versions because the topic was not necessarily 'lighthearted' and the watercolour map may underestimate the significance of the story. Other than the visual design, my friend said she understood the story and found it quite interesting!
## Conclusion
Overall, as each week passes, I am becoming more aware of what digital history entails and how I will be able to use certain applications and websites in future classes. The feedback I received from the previous week made me more aware of the fact that the digitization of history has altered the sort of history that is written as certain Canadian cities have been the focus of attention for Canadian newspapers and I am assuming for other research as well. I think this is important to keep in mind for future history classes where I have to examine historical trends and patterns as some populations may be left out of research and this causes 'blindspots' in data as it may only be representative of a small group. I am looking forward to the final section of the class and I hope to try a more difficult sequence to test the skills I have developed so far!

<sup>1</sup> Matthew Lincoln, "Confabulation in the humanities", *Matthew Lincoln*, *PhD (blog)*, 21 Mar 2015, https://matthewlincoln.net/2015/03/21/confabulation-in-the-humanities.html
